
Reviewer #1: Although in this manuscript a further advancement in VOF
is developed for which test results indicate that it can result in a
significant reduction in required computational resources, I have
encountered various problems going through this submission, and
recommend inviting a major revision. The main issues are : clear
presentation as to how the method, in discretized form, differs
crucially from prior work; demonstration that the objective of
accurate momentum "conservation" is achieved; clear presentation of
the algorithm in terms of *discretized equations* rather than a wordy
formulation; concerns that tests are unconvincing or that essential
tests are missing. These and some other points are detailed below.



Although the authors appear pleased with the performance of their
method, it is difficult to this reader to extract how the method, in
its final discretized form, actually differs from other methods. Can
this not be explained properly somewhere? A naïve look at (55), which
is the general form developed for the discretized momentum equation
(well, only the advection part at this stage), suggests that this is
merely a finite-volume method; unless I'm wrong, (55) is developed
from (48) by invoking (51), wherein (40) is used wherein, in turn, the
fluxes for the color function are used.

> We thank the reveiwer for his question. The method is indeed
> a standard finite volume method on a cubic grid, we make that clear 
> by adding a few lines below equation (55). It differs from previous
> methods by the manner in which fluxes of momentum are computed. This is also
> made clear. 
>

Much of the method is presented in sentences rather than as an
algorithm. Given the complicated notation (tildes, overlines, many
indices), it would be beneficial to the paper to clearly state which
equation is used to solve for which field at each step, notably in the
list on p.32. That list is followed presently by a statement that
these statements are covered in detail on p.33, but that is not true
for most steps.

> we add more details to the description of the steps 
> and we add a diagrammatic explanation. (Not sure about *more equations*
> rather give references to equatons which are already there such as (58) ) . 

The authors' ambition is to develop a method that represents the
advection terms in the momentum equation such that momentum is not
created/reduced numerically. On p.34, however, it is conceded that the
formulation is not demonstrated firmly to fully obey this principle of
so-called "momentum conservation".

> change the title ? 

A fluxing scheme for momentum consistent with the geometric VOF method ....



I would have expected some test
results that confirm the accuracy of momentum conservation of this
scheme, compared to other schemes.

> add graph by Sagar

A test on spurious currents is not included in section 4, such as the
translating sphere as in Popinet (JCP 2009). Surface tension is almost
entirely absent in the test section 4 - it is not included at all in
the test 4.1 and seems absent in 4.2-4.4, only some weak effect in
4.5.

> surface tension is rather the topic of subsequent papers 
> (cite parissimulator and mention the idea of future Sagar's paper)
> however we add a spurious currents result. 

It is concluded that mass is conserved at some accuracy (p.52, last
paragraph). On the other hand, "clipping" is used (p.18) - is that
common practice or a special requirement here?

> it is common, but swept "under the rug" by previous authors. 

The need for this is left open-ended on p.19, is there no update?

> Unfortunately no. 

Anyhow, although I appreciate the analytical efforts in sec.3, I have not seen results of numerical tests to verify how small the error in mass conservation is. I request that such data are included.

> Sagar will give us some mass conservation. 

Related: how important is "cloning" in the test results? On p.24 it seems to have been abandoned.

> SZ will give some comments. 

Much is made of the test result in sec.4.4 (falling rain drop) (fig.14
vs fig.15). I have some concerns over this. First, in these figures
the "pressure" field is shown. But how certain is it that this really
is the pressure? Presumably it is the scalar field used to make the
velocity field divergence-free. Even in single-phase flow this is not
necessarily true (see Kim and Moin JCP 1985) - although I concede that
the time-explicit discretization of the viscous terms would mean that
there it really is the pressure in single-phase flow, I am not sure
about the effect of the capillary term in the momentum equation.

> ???? We see that the correction / pressure gradient
we apply to the velocity is much smoother. 

My
second concern here are the initial conditions, which are not clearly
stated. Do the authors use here a uniform flow in the gas and zero
velocity in the drop? Would that not require a very large acceleration
on the (interior) left and right poles of the drop? One might as well
do a 1D test on this instead. Basically a shock wave would then have
been placed at the drop surface. In that case I would not know how
this could be realized experimentally, it would seem an artificial
test. True enough that it would be nice if the method would be robust
in such an extreme case, but how important that is remains unclear to
me.

> I (SZ) have clear ideas about that. It is in part explained in a published
preprint by Florence Marcotte and SZ.
> cite also Winkler et al. 


Most of the other tests are not very convincing to me. In sec. 4.2
Kelvin-Helmholtz analysis is applied to a circular interface imposed
to parallel flow, and there is no direct comparison (only some
interface shapes for different density ratios).

> it is not possible to make a direct comparison (SZ will explain why)


In sec.4.3, again no
direct comparison with theory; I am disappointed to see that the
authors use in table 1 the time at which a code crashes as indication
of (in-) stability of the scheme used, because the flow is unstable
physically, so a late crashing time may reflect less numerical
diffusion (the difference between figures 11 a and b is meaningless to
me). Some of the authors on this paper have extensive experience with
comparing with an Orr-Sommerfeld analysis, but this is not reported on
in this paper.

> We are sorry the reveiwer finds the tests not convincing. The 10^6 $ drop
> is a standard test (meybe 8 references)
> The KH analysis: it deos not work, we are sorry (maybe try to redo it now ? ) 
> preceisely because we are experts on KH - OrrSomm analysis we know it is super 
> difficult. 

The development is not the advection of the color function, but the momentum balance. For the former, two methods

> (the reviewer means WY and CIAM ) 

are tested. Why is CIAM used as an example of the general class of PLIC methods?

> because it has many nice properties, 0 <= C <= 1, not in-bulk deviations from 0 or 1. + it is a mainstay + there are not so many , if you exclude unsplit methods. 


Minor comments:
p.5: The last paragraph of the introduction oddly lists the contributions made by the various authors. If this must be included at all, then perhaps at the end, near the acknowledgements.

> I did that before, is it so odd ? 

p.12: "(Figure 4)" not sure why this is here.
p.13: "(20) and 21)"
p.13: "Note that because …, even if …" rephrase
p.14 "in each sub step m … the velocity field us ub direction m and depends only on the component x_m" - I am reminded of students who think that in a velocity field (u,v,w) u only depends on x, v only on y, etc.

p.17: "C_ijk^m changes during during the three substeps" - presumably meant is that C_ijk^m is different for each m, not that at all substep C_ijk^m for all m somehow change? Or, is it?

Should be clarified indeed


p.18: "defined on the real axis" ?

ok

p.23: last line of sec.3.4.3: the sum over m should be taken (unlike in (45)).

ok

p.24: "Thus, \tilde{u}_{q,s}^m = \tilde{u}_{q,s} remains constant" : also for CIAM? Agreed for WY.

check. Sagar is not sure. We should all check. 

p.25: "using the above definition (26)" Should this read (45)?

yes the reviewer is right. 

p.25: After (55), better place milestones by reminding the reader that it remains to determine \tilde{u} and \overline{u} etc which is discussed in the next section.

OK with this 

p.29: first line after (70) "Then one prescribed .. the largest, of alpha and beta" I believe this is only done if that is positive.

> According to wikipedia the reviewer is right, but it does not
correspond to the code . Sagar will check.

p.45 I was unable to find the "following explanation" that is attributed to ref.11 in that reference.

> SZ will check the paper and the thesis of young Feng Xiao

p.47 Which VOF method is used in fig.15, CIAM or WY? 

CIAM

p. 47 Why is a result for D/h=128 not included, given that 64 would still not seem a fine grid?

Some results from the 128 by Sagar will be included. 

p.48 Fig.16b shows not the vorticity magnitude (figure caption and title in the green bit) because the range includes negative values. From the small labels below the figure I gather that omega_y is shown instead.

> oups the reveiwer is correct

